# Linear regression of OES data to XPS depth profiles for enhanced chemical composition analysis 

with Hye-Young Kim at KETI🙌

**&lt;ABSTRACT&gt;**
<div align="justify"> 
&nbsp;&nbsp;Optical Emission Spectroscopy (OES) is widely used to monitor plasma–based semiconductor manufacturing processes in real time, such as Plasma Enhanced Atomic Layer Deposition (PEALD). In contrast with Mass Spectrometry (MS), its primary benefit lies in rapidly analyzing the chemical composition within a chamber in a non-invasive manner. However, conventional OES-based monitoring methods have typically overlooked the impact of spectrometer resolution in their analysis. To be specific, they have not accounted for the fact that spectrometer resolution varies across different wavelength ranges, and there have been no experimental attempts to verify and incorporate this into the analysis. To address the limitations of OES, we examined its correlations with X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy (XPS) depth profiles, carefully pre-processed both data based on our domain knowledge, and performed linear regression analysis to relate the two. This enabled us to reconstruct the optical emission spectrum whose reliability is validated by confirming that the reconstructed spectrum matches the emission wavelengths of pure elements and specific element-based compounds reported in literature (e.g., academic papers, NIST databases) within a first-decimal-place error margin at the nanometer scale. Furthermore, a generalized regression model is used in a complementary manner when the linear regression model fails to pass evaluation processes: coefficients from the linear regression model and feature importance from the generalized one are integrated and applied to the pre-processed OES data, which allowed us to identify limitations in spectrometer resolution. That is, the direction and magnitude of deviation in the optical emission spectrum from reference values were calculated, and representative emission wavelengths were assigned for each substance. Lastly, the derived representative emission wavelengths were then applied to the OES data to determine the chemical composition inside the chamber during the manufacturing process. 
</div>
